Improving migration guide intro. (#24456)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-go: sdk/ai/azopenai/MIGRATION.md

# Migration Guide from Azure OpenAI SDK v0.7.x to v0.8.0

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: Ah, a table of contents! This doc is getting more and more deluxe.

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Summary of Major Changes](#summary-of-major-changes)
- [Key Changes](#key-changes)
- [Authentication and Client Creation](#authentication-and-client-creation)
- [API Changes](#api-changes)
- [Common Migration Scenarios](#common-migration-scenarios)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

## Overview

> As of April 2025, Azure OpenAI has adopted the official OpenAI library for Go as its recommended and supported client library for the Go programming language. This shift ensures maximum code reuse, the fastest possible access to new models and features, and clear integration points between Azure-specific components and OpenAI API capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure OpenAI has adopted the official OpenAI library for Go as its supported client library for the Go programming language. This shift ensures maximum code reuse, the fastest possible access to new models and features, and clear integration points between Azure-specific components and OpenAI API capabilities.
```

No date needed, it'll be obvious when we publish this package.
Also, it won't only be recommended. It'll be the only package that customers can use, going forward.

> To serve this switch, starting with version 0.8.0, the `azopenai.Client` provided by this package has been retired in favor of the [official OpenAI Go client library](https://github.com/openai/openai-go). That package contains all that is needed to connect to both the Azure OpenAI and OpenAI services. This library is now a companion, enabling Azure-specific extensions (such as Azure OpenAI On Your Data). The `azopenaiassistants` package has also been deprecated in favor of the official client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `azopenai.Client` provided by this package has been retired in favor of the [official OpenAI Go client library](https://github.com/openai/openai-go). That package contains all that is needed to connect to both the Azure OpenAI and OpenAI services. This library is now a companion, enabling Azure-specific extensions (such as Azure OpenAI On Your Data). The `azopenaiassistants` package has also been deprecated in favor of the official client.
```

> Migrating to the official client offers:
> - Consistent API experience between Azure OpenAI and OpenAI services.
> - Direct access to the latest OpenAI features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating to the official client offers:
- Consistent API experience between Azure OpenAI and OpenAI services.
- Direct access to the latest OpenAI features.
```

Seems unnneeded - previous paragraphs covered this.

Author: fair, removed!

> [!NOTE]
> This document is a work-in-progress and may change to reflect updates to the package. We value your feedback—please [create an issue](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/issues/new/choose) to suggest improvements or report problems with this guide or the package.

## Summary of Major Changes

| Area                | v0.7.x Approach                | v0.8.0+ Approach (Recommended)         |
|---------------------|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Client              | `azopenai.Client`              | `openai.Client`                        |
| Assistants          | `azopenaiassistants`           | `openai.Client.Beta.Assistants`        |
| Azure Extensions    | Built-in                       | Use `azopenai` as a companion          |
| API Structure       | Flat methods                   | Subclients per service category        |
| Authentication      | Azure-specific                 | Use `azure.With...` options            |

## Key Changes

### New Dependency

Your projects must now include the official OpenAI Go client:

```go
import (
    "github.com/openai/openai-go"
)
```

> If you need Azure-specific extensions, also include the `azopenai` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need Azure-specific extensions (for instance, Azure OpenAI On Your Data or content filtering), also include the `azopenai` package:
```

(I'm not totally sure what the official product name is for content filtering, or if there is one, but it's a notable feature)

)
```

> [!NOTE]

> > **Azure extensions** refer to features unique to the Azure OpenAI Service, such as new request/response structures (e.g., Azure OpenAI On Your Data), not basic authentication or connection differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Azure extensions** refer to features unique to the Azure OpenAI Service (e.g., Azure OpenAI On Your Data, or content filtering). Authentication for Azure resources is available in the `openai-go` package, and does not require this package.
```

}
```

**After:**
```go
endpoint := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT")

> api_version := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Information on Azure OpenAI API versions can be found here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/api-version-deprecation#latest-preview-api-releases
api_version := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION")
```

What do you think? Is that page official enough?

Author: Updated with the new aka.ms link :)

}
```

**After:**
```go
endpoint := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT")

> api_version := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Information on Azure OpenAI API versions can be found here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/api-version-deprecation#latest-preview-api-releases
api_version := os.Getenv("AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION")
```

Author: Updated with the new aka.ms link :)

}
```

**After:**
```go
key := os.Getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")
client := openai.NewClient(
    option.WithAPIKey(key),
)
```

## API Changes

> The official OpenAI Go client organizes operations into subclients for each service category, rather than providing all operations as flat methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official OpenAI Go client organizes operations into subclients for each service category, rather than providing all operations on a single client.
```
